\input texinfo    @c -*- texinfo -*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename wikipedia.info
@settitle wikipedia.el: Emacs interface for Wikipedia editing
@documentencoding UTF-8
@documentlanguage en
@c %**end of header

@dircategory Emacs misc features
@direntry
* Wikipedia: (wikipedia). Emacs interface for Wikipedia editing.
@end direntry

@finalout
@titlepage
@author Pablo Stafforini (@email{pablo@@stafforini.com})
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top wikipedia.el: Emacs interface for Wikipedia editing

This manual describes the features and customization options for the Emacs Lisp package @samp{wikipedia.el}. @*

@end ifnottex

@menu
* Overview::
* User options::
* Commands::
* Indices::

@detailmenu
--- The Detailed Node Listing ---

User options

* Diff display::
* Draft storage::
* XTools integration::
* Local database::
* Synchronization::
* AI review options::

Commands

* Session management::
* Page editing::
* Preview::
* Draft management::
* Watchlist::
* Revision history::
* User inspection::
* XTools statistics::
* Synchronization and local mirror::
* Diff follow mode::
* AI review::
* Transient menu::

Watchlist

* Navigation::
* Actions::
* Unread tracking::
* Managing watched pages::
* Full keybinding reference::

Revision history

* Viewing and comparing revisions::
* Full keybinding reference: Full keybinding reference (1). 

User inspection

* Contribution actions::
* User page and profile commands::
* Sending thanks::
* Full keybinding reference: Full keybinding reference (2). 

XTools statistics

* User statistics::
* Page statistics::

AI review options

* Review prompt::
* Review model::
* Automatic scoring::

Synchronization and local mirror

* Synchronizing pages::
* Browsing the local mirror::
* Local revision history::
* Database management::

Indices

* Function index::
* Variable index::

@end detailmenu
@end menu

@node Overview
@chapter Overview

The @samp{wikipedia.el} package provides a comprehensive Emacs interface for Wikipedia. @*
It builds on top of @samp{mediawiki.el}, which handles the low-level protocol details, @*
and adds higher-level workflows for editing, reviewing, and managing Wikipedia @*
content. @*

The package requires Emacs 29.1 or later and @samp{mediawiki.el} for the @*
underlying API communication.  Optionally, @samp{pangram.el} can be @*
installed for AI-generated text detection; when available, an ``AI @*
Detection'' group appears in the transient menu (@ref{Transient menu}). @*
Before using any commands, you must configure at least one @*
wiki site via @samp{mediawiki-site-alist} and establish a session with @*
@code{wikipedia-login} (@ref{Session management}). @*

The package is organized around several core workflows: @*

@itemize
@item
@strong{Page editing}: open pages for editing in @samp{mediawiki-mode} buffers, @*
preview rendered HTML, and publish changes back to the wiki @*
(@ref{Page editing}). @*

@item
@strong{Draft management}: save work-in-progress edits as local files that @*
persist across sessions (@ref{Draft management}). @*

@item
@strong{Watchlist}: browse your watchlist with a grouped, expandable @*
interface that shows recent changes organized by page, with unread @*
tracking and background prefetching of diffs @*
(@ref{Watchlist}). @*

@item
@strong{Revision history}: inspect the full revision history of any page, @*
view diffs between arbitrary revisions, and navigate between @*
historical snapshots (@ref{Revision history}). @*

@item
@strong{User inspection}: view user contributions, visit user pages, send @*
thanks, and look up detailed editing statistics via XTools @*
(@ref{User inspection}, @ref{XTools statistics}). @*

@item
@strong{Local mirror}: synchronize watched pages to a local SQLite database @*
for offline browsing and faster access (@ref{Synchronization and local mirror}). @*

@item
@strong{Diff follow mode}: automatically display diffs as you navigate @*
entries in the watchlist, history, or contributions buffers @*
(@ref{Diff follow mode}). @*

@item
@strong{AI review}: use an LLM to score watchlist changes by review @*
priority, so you can focus on the edits that matter most @*
(@ref{AI review}). @*
@end itemize

All commands are accessible through a unified transient menu @*
(@ref{Transient menu}). @*

@node User options
@chapter User options

@menu
* Diff display::
* Draft storage::
* XTools integration::
* Local database::
* Synchronization::
* AI review options::
@end menu

@node Diff display
@section Diff display

@vindex wikipedia-diff-function
The user option @code{wikipedia-diff-function} controls how diffs are @*
displayed throughout the package.  It accepts two values: @*

@itemize
@item
@code{unified} (the default): show diffs in a single buffer using Emacs's @*
built-in @code{diff-mode}.  This is compact and integrates well with the @*
diff follow mode (@ref{Diff follow mode}). @*

@item
@code{ediff}: use @code{ediff-buffers} for side-by-side comparison.  This gives @*
a richer interactive experience but opens multiple windows and is @*
incompatible with diff follow mode. @*
@end itemize

Change this option if you prefer side-by-side comparison and do not use @*
diff follow mode. @*

@node Draft storage
@section Draft storage

@vindex wikipedia-draft-directory
The user option @code{wikipedia-draft-directory} specifies the directory @*
where local drafts are stored.  Each draft is saved as a @samp{.wiki} file @*
named after the page title, using a byte-level encoding scheme for @*
filesystem safety.  The default value is @samp{wikipedia-drafts/} inside @*
@code{user-emacs-directory}. @*

Change this if you want drafts stored in a different location, for @*
example a directory that is synchronized across machines. @*

@node XTools integration
@section XTools integration

@vindex wikipedia-xtools-base-url
@vindex wikipedia-xtools-project
The user option @code{wikipedia-xtools-base-url} specifies the base URL for @*
the XTools API@.  The default value is @samp{https://xtools.wmcloud.org/api}. @*
You would only change this if the XTools service moves to a different @*
URL@. @*

The user option @code{wikipedia-xtools-project} specifies the default project @*
for XTools queries.  The default value is @samp{en.wikipedia.org}.  Change @*
this if you primarily edit a different Wikipedia language edition or @*
another MediaWiki project (e.g., @samp{de.wikipedia.org} or @*
@samp{commons.wikimedia.org}). @*

@node Local database
@section Local database

@vindex wikipedia-db-file
The user option @code{wikipedia-db-file} specifies the path to the SQLite @*
database file used for local page storage.  The default value is @*
@samp{wikipedia.db} inside @code{user-emacs-directory}.  Change this if you want @*
the database stored elsewhere, for example to keep it separate from @*
your Emacs configuration. @*

@node Synchronization
@section Synchronization

@vindex wikipedia-sync-revision-limit
@vindex wikipedia-sync-fetch-content
The user option @code{wikipedia-sync-revision-limit} controls the maximum @*
number of revisions to synchronize per page.  The default value is 20. @*
Increase this if you want deeper local history; decrease it if @*
synchronization is too slow. @*

The user option @code{wikipedia-sync-fetch-content} controls whether full @*
revision content (wikitext) is fetched during synchronization.  When @*
non-nil (the default), the content of the most recent revision is @*
downloaded and stored locally, enabling offline viewing and local diffs. @*
Set this to @code{nil} if you only want revision metadata without the actual @*
page content. @*

@node AI review options
@section AI review options

These options require the @samp{gptel} package.

@menu
* Review prompt::
* Review model::
* Automatic scoring::
@end menu

@node Review prompt
@subsection Review prompt

@vindex wikipedia-ai-review-system-prompt
@vindex wikipedia-ai-review-prompt
The user option @code{wikipedia-ai-review-system-prompt} is the system @*
prompt sent to the LLM.  It instructs the model to return a JSON object @*
with a @samp{score} (0.0--1.0) and a @samp{reason}.  You should not normally @*
need to change this. @*

The user option @code{wikipedia-ai-review-prompt} describes which edits @*
to flag.  The default asks the model to identify substantive changes @*
(adding or removing sentences, changing factual claims, altering @*
structure) and ignore minor edits like typo fixes or formatting.  @*
Customize this to match your review priorities. @*

@node Review model
@subsection Review model

@vindex wikipedia-ai-review-model
@vindex wikipedia-ai-review-backend
The user option @code{wikipedia-ai-review-model} specifies the LLM model @*
to use for scoring.  When nil (the default), the current @*
@code{gptel-model} is used.  Set this to a specific model symbol to use @*
a different model for review than for other @samp{gptel} tasks. @*

The user option @code{wikipedia-ai-review-backend} specifies the @*
@samp{gptel} backend name (e.g., @samp{"Gemini"} or @samp{"Claude"}).  When nil @*
(the default), the backend is inferred from @*
@code{wikipedia-ai-review-model}, falling back to @code{gptel-backend}. @*

@node Automatic scoring
@subsection Automatic scoring

@vindex wikipedia-ai-review-auto
@vindex wikipedia-watchlist-score-reason-auto
The user option @code{wikipedia-ai-review-auto}, when non-nil, @*
automatically runs AI scoring after each watchlist refresh.  This @*
eliminates the need to press @samp{R} manually. @*

The user option @code{wikipedia-watchlist-score-reason-auto}, when @*
non-nil, automatically displays the AI score and reason in the echo @*
area as you move between watchlist entries. @*

@node Commands
@chapter Commands

@menu
* Session management::
* Page editing::
* Preview::
* Draft management::
* Watchlist::
* Revision history::
* User inspection::
* XTools statistics::
* Synchronization and local mirror::
* Diff follow mode::
* AI review::
* Transient menu::
@end menu

@node Session management
@section Session management

@findex wikipedia-login
The command @code{wikipedia-login} establishes a session with a wiki site. @*
When called interactively, it prompts for a site name from those @*
configured in @code{mediawiki-site-alist}.  You must call this command (or @*
let it be called implicitly) before using any other @samp{wikipedia.el} @*
commands.  Most commands call @code{wp--ensure-logged-in} internally, which @*
will prompt you to select a site if no session is active. @*

@node Page editing
@section Page editing

@findex wikipedia-open
@findex wikipedia-publish
@findex wikipedia-browse
The command @code{wikipedia-open} opens a Wikipedia page for editing in a @*
@samp{mediawiki-mode} buffer.  When called interactively, it prompts for the @*
page title, defaulting to the title at point if available (for example, @*
when invoked from a watchlist or history buffer). @*

The command @code{wikipedia-publish} saves the current buffer's content back @*
to the wiki.  It accepts an optional edit summary; when called @*
interactively, @samp{mediawiki.el} prompts for one if needed.  The alias @*
@code{wikipedia-save} is provided for discoverability. @*

The command @code{wikipedia-browse} opens the page in an external web browser @*
via @code{browse-url}.  Like @code{wikipedia-open}, it defaults to the title at @*
point. @*

@findex wikipedia-edit-mode
The minor mode @code{wikipedia-edit-mode} provides additional keybindings when @*
editing a wiki page.  It displays @samp{WP} in the mode line lighter and @*
binds @samp{C-c C-p} to @code{wikipedia-preview}. @*

@node Preview
@section Preview

@findex wikipedia-preview
@findex wikipedia-preview-edit
@findex wikipedia-preview-refresh
The command @code{wikipedia-preview} sends the current buffer's wikitext to @*
the MediaWiki parse API and displays the rendered HTML in a dedicated @*
preview buffer.  The preview uses @code{shr-render-region} to display the @*
HTML as formatted text within Emacs. @*

The preview buffer uses @code{wikipedia-preview-mode}, which provides the @*
following keybindings: @*

@multitable {aaa} {aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa} {aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa}
@headitem Key
@tab Command
@tab Description
@item @samp{e}
@tab @code{wikipedia-preview-edit}
@tab Switch back to the source buffer
@item @samp{g}
@tab @code{wikipedia-preview-refresh}
@tab Re-render the preview from source
@item @samp{q}
@tab @code{quit-window}
@tab Close the preview window
@end multitable

The preview buffer supports @code{revert-buffer} (bound to @samp{g} in @*
@code{special-mode}), which re-fetches the preview from the source buffer. @*

@node Draft management
@section Draft management

@findex wikipedia-draft-save
@findex wikipedia-draft-open
@findex wikipedia-draft-delete
Drafts allow you to save work-in-progress edits locally before @*
publishing them to the wiki.  Each draft is a @samp{.wiki} file stored in @*
@code{wikipedia-draft-directory} (@ref{Draft storage}). @*

The command @code{wikipedia-draft-save} saves the current buffer's content as @*
a local draft.  It requires the buffer to have a page title set (as is @*
the case when editing a page opened via @code{wikipedia-open}).  Saving a @*
draft for the same page overwrites the previous draft. @*

The command @code{wikipedia-draft-open} prompts you to select a draft from @*
the list of saved drafts, then opens it in a @samp{mediawiki-mode} buffer @*
with @code{wikipedia-edit-mode} enabled.  From there, you can continue @*
editing and eventually publish with @code{wikipedia-publish}. @*

The command @code{wikipedia-draft-delete} prompts for a draft to delete, with @*
a confirmation prompt before removing the file. @*

Page titles are encoded into safe filenames using a byte-level escape @*
scheme: characters outside @samp{[a-zA-Z0-9 .-]} are replaced with @samp{_XX} @*
sequences (where @samp{XX} is the hexadecimal byte value of each UTF-8 @*
byte).  This ensures filenames are portable across operating systems @*
while remaining mostly human-readable for ASCII titles. @*

@node Watchlist
@section Watchlist

@findex wikipedia-watchlist
@findex wikipedia-watchlist-refresh
The command @code{wikipedia-watchlist} opens a buffer displaying your @*
Wikipedia watchlist.  Entries are grouped by page title: each page @*
appears as a collapsible group header showing the most recent change @*
summary, the contributing users, and the total size change.  A @samp{#} @*
column shows the number of changes when a page has more than one. @*

The watchlist fetches all unseen changes from the last 30 days, @*
including bot and minor edits.  This ensures that reverts are included @*
in the group, so that group diffs accurately reflect the net change. @*
After loading, it asynchronously prefetches revision content in the @*
background so that diffs can be displayed instantly when you navigate @*
to an entry. @*

When the @samp{gptel} package is installed, the watchlist supports AI @*
review scoring (@ref{AI review}).  A @samp{Score} column shows the @*
priority score (0.0--1.0) for each page.  Scores are persisted in the @*
local database and restored automatically when the watchlist is @*
reopened. @*

@menu
* Navigation::
* Actions::
* Unread tracking::
* Managing watched pages::
* Full keybinding reference::
@end menu

@node Navigation
@subsection Navigation

@findex wikipedia-watchlist-toggle-expand
@findex wikipedia-watchlist-expand-all
@findex wikipedia-watchlist-collapse-all
Group headers with more than one change can be expanded and collapsed. @*
The command @code{wikipedia-watchlist-toggle-expand}, bound to @samp{TAB} and @*
@samp{SPC}, toggles the group at point.  Expanded groups show individual @*
entries indented below the header, with per-edit timestamps, users, size @*
changes, and summaries.  The indicators @samp{▶} (collapsed) and @samp{▼} @*
(expanded) show the current state. @*

The commands @code{wikipedia-watchlist-expand-all} (@samp{e}) and @*
@code{wikipedia-watchlist-collapse-all} (@samp{c}) expand or collapse every group @*
at once. @*

@node Actions
@subsection Actions

@findex wikipedia-watchlist-open-page
@findex wikipedia-watchlist-show-diff
@findex wikipedia-watchlist-show-history
@findex wikipedia-watchlist-browse
The command @code{wikipedia-watchlist-open-page} (@samp{RET}, @samp{o}) opens the page @*
at point for editing, marking it as read.  The command @*
@code{wikipedia-watchlist-show-diff} (@samp{d}, @samp{v}) displays the diff for the @*
change at point, using the method specified by @code{wikipedia-diff-function} @*
(@ref{Diff display}).  The command @*
@code{wikipedia-watchlist-show-history} (@samp{h}) opens the full revision history @*
for the page.  The command @code{wikipedia-watchlist-browse} (@samp{b}) opens the @*
page in an external browser. @*

@node Unread tracking
@subsection Unread tracking

@findex wikipedia-watchlist-mark-all-read
Unread entries are displayed in bold (using the @code{wikipedia-watchlist-unread} @*
face).  Opening a page or viewing its diff marks it as read, both @*
locally and on the server.  The command @code{wikipedia-watchlist-mark-all-read} @*
(@samp{m} or @samp{!}) marks every entry as read. @*

@node Managing watched pages
@subsection Managing watched pages

@findex wikipedia-watchlist-watch
@findex wikipedia-watchlist-unwatch
The command @code{wikipedia-watchlist-watch} (@samp{w}) adds a page to your @*
watchlist.  The command @code{wikipedia-watchlist-unwatch} (@samp{x}) removes a @*
page, after confirmation.  Both commands default to the title at point @*
and send the request asynchronously. @*

@node Full keybinding reference
@subsection Full keybinding reference

@multitable {aaaaa} {aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa} {aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa}
@headitem Key
@tab Command
@tab Description
@item @samp{RET}
@tab @code{wikipedia-watchlist-open-page}
@tab Open page for editing
@item @samp{TAB}
@tab @code{wikipedia-watchlist-toggle-expand}
@tab Toggle group expansion
@item @samp{SPC}
@tab @code{wikipedia-watchlist-toggle-expand}
@tab Toggle group expansion
@item @samp{d}
@tab @code{wikipedia-watchlist-show-diff}
@tab Show diff for entry
@item @samp{v}
@tab @code{wikipedia-watchlist-show-diff}
@tab Show diff for entry
@item @samp{f}
@tab @code{wikipedia-diff-follow-mode}
@tab Toggle diff follow mode
@item @samp{h}
@tab @code{wikipedia-watchlist-show-history}
@tab Show page history
@item @samp{b}
@tab @code{wikipedia-watchlist-browse}
@tab Open in browser
@item @samp{B}
@tab @code{wikipedia-browse}
@tab Browse any page
@item @samp{e}
@tab @code{wikipedia-watchlist-expand-all}
@tab Expand all groups
@item @samp{c}
@tab @code{wikipedia-watchlist-collapse-all}
@tab Collapse all groups
@item @samp{m}
@tab @code{wikipedia-watchlist-mark-all-read}
@tab Mark all as read
@item @samp{!}
@tab @code{wikipedia-watchlist-mark-all-read}
@tab Mark all as read
@item @samp{o}
@tab @code{wikipedia-watchlist-open-page}
@tab Open page for editing
@item @samp{t}
@tab @code{wikipedia-thank}
@tab Thank user for edit
@item @samp{u}
@tab @code{wikipedia-user-at-point}
@tab Inspect user at point
@item @samp{s}
@tab @code{wikipedia-xtools-user-stats}
@tab User stats via XTools
@item @samp{w}
@tab @code{wikipedia-watchlist-watch}
@tab Watch a page
@item @samp{x}
@tab @code{wikipedia-watchlist-unwatch}
@tab Unwatch a page
@item @samp{R}
@tab @code{wikipedia-ai-review-watchlist}
@tab Score entries with AI
@item @samp{S}
@tab @code{wikipedia-watchlist-sort-by-score}
@tab Sort by AI score
@item @samp{I}
@tab @code{wikipedia-watchlist-show-score-reason}
@tab Show score reason
@item @samp{g}
@tab @code{wikipedia-watchlist-refresh}
@tab Refresh the watchlist
@item @samp{q}
@tab @code{quit-window}
@tab Close the window
@end multitable

@node Revision history
@section Revision history

@findex wikipedia-history
@findex wikipedia-history-refresh
The command @code{wikipedia-history} opens a buffer displaying the revision @*
history of a page.  When called interactively, it prompts for the page @*
title.  The history buffer shows each revision's ID, date, author, @*
size, and edit summary in a tabulated list, sorted by date (newest @*
first). @*

@menu
* Viewing and comparing revisions::
* Full keybinding reference: Full keybinding reference (1). 
@end menu

@node Viewing and comparing revisions
@subsection Viewing and comparing revisions

@findex wikipedia-history-view-revision
@findex wikipedia-history-diff-to-previous
@findex wikipedia-history-diff-to-current
@findex wikipedia-history-diff-revisions
@findex wikipedia-history-browse-revision
The command @code{wikipedia-history-view-revision} (@samp{RET}, @samp{v}) fetches and @*
displays the full wikitext of the revision at point in a read-only @*
buffer. @*

The command @code{wikipedia-history-diff-to-previous} (@samp{d}) shows the diff @*
between the revision at point and its parent revision.  This corresponds @*
to Wikipedia's ``prev'' link.  The command @*
@code{wikipedia-history-diff-to-current} (@samp{c}) shows the diff between the @*
revision at point and the most recent revision, corresponding to @*
Wikipedia's ``cur'' link. @*

The command @code{wikipedia-history-diff-revisions} (@samp{D}) prompts for two @*
revision IDs and displays the diff between them.  This is useful for @*
comparing non-adjacent revisions. @*

The command @code{wikipedia-history-browse-revision} (@samp{b}) opens the revision @*
at point in an external browser. @*

@node Full keybinding reference (1)
@subsection Full keybinding reference

@multitable {aaaaa} {aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa} {aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa}
@headitem Key
@tab Command
@tab Description
@item @samp{RET}
@tab @code{wikipedia-history-view-revision}
@tab View revision wikitext
@item @samp{v}
@tab @code{wikipedia-history-view-revision}
@tab View revision wikitext
@item @samp{d}
@tab @code{wikipedia-history-diff-to-previous}
@tab Diff to parent (prev)
@item @samp{c}
@tab @code{wikipedia-history-diff-to-current}
@tab Diff to latest (cur)
@item @samp{D}
@tab @code{wikipedia-history-diff-revisions}
@tab Diff arbitrary revisions
@item @samp{f}
@tab @code{wikipedia-diff-follow-mode}
@tab Toggle diff follow mode
@item @samp{b}
@tab @code{wikipedia-history-browse-revision}
@tab Open revision in browser
@item @samp{B}
@tab @code{wikipedia-browse}
@tab Browse any page
@item @samp{o}
@tab @code{wikipedia-open}
@tab Open page for editing
@item @samp{t}
@tab @code{wikipedia-thank}
@tab Thank user for edit
@item @samp{u}
@tab @code{wikipedia-user-at-point}
@tab Inspect user at point
@item @samp{s}
@tab @code{wikipedia-xtools-user-stats}
@tab User stats via XTools
@item @samp{w}
@tab @code{wikipedia-watchlist-watch}
@tab Watch this page
@item @samp{x}
@tab @code{wikipedia-watchlist-unwatch}
@tab Unwatch this page
@item @samp{g}
@tab @code{wikipedia-history-refresh}
@tab Refresh history
@item @samp{q}
@tab @code{quit-window}
@tab Close the window
@end multitable

@node User inspection
@section User inspection

@findex wikipedia-user-contributions
@findex wikipedia-user-contributions-refresh
The command @code{wikipedia-user-contributions} opens a buffer displaying a @*
user's recent contributions.  When called interactively, it prompts for @*
the username, defaulting to the user at point when available (e.g., when @*
invoked from a watchlist or history buffer).  The contributions buffer @*
shows each edit's timestamp, page title, size change, and edit summary. @*

@menu
* Contribution actions::
* User page and profile commands::
* Sending thanks::
* Full keybinding reference: Full keybinding reference (2). 
@end menu

@node Contribution actions
@subsection Contribution actions

@findex wikipedia-user-contributions-view-diff
@findex wikipedia-user-contributions-view-revision
@findex wikipedia-user-contributions-open-page
@findex wikipedia-user-contributions-browse
@findex wikipedia-user-contributions-show-history
@findex wikipedia-user-contributions-thank
The command @code{wikipedia-user-contributions-view-diff} (@samp{RET}, @samp{d}) shows @*
the diff between the contribution at point and its parent revision.  The @*
command @code{wikipedia-user-contributions-view-revision} (@samp{v}) displays the @*
full wikitext.  The command @code{wikipedia-user-contributions-open-page} @*
(@samp{o}) opens the page for editing. @*

The command @code{wikipedia-user-contributions-browse} (@samp{b}) opens the @*
revision in an external browser.  The command @*
@code{wikipedia-user-contributions-show-history} (@samp{h}) opens the full page @*
history.  The command @code{wikipedia-user-contributions-thank} (@samp{t}) sends a @*
thank notification for the edit. @*

@node User page and profile commands
@subsection User page and profile commands

@findex wikipedia-user-page
@findex wikipedia-user-talk
@findex wikipedia-user-browse
@findex wikipedia-user-at-point
@findex wikipedia-user-stats
The command @code{wikipedia-user-page} opens the user page (@samp{User:USERNAME}) @*
for editing.  The command @code{wikipedia-user-talk} opens the user's talk @*
page.  The command @code{wikipedia-user-browse} opens the user page in an @*
external browser. @*

The command @code{wikipedia-user-at-point} inspects the user at point in any @*
of the list buffers (watchlist, history, contributions), opening their @*
contributions. @*

The command @code{wikipedia-user-stats} is a convenience wrapper that calls @*
@code{wikipedia-xtools-user-stats} (@ref{XTools statistics}). @*

@node Sending thanks
@subsection Sending thanks

@findex wikipedia-thank
The command @code{wikipedia-thank} sends a thank notification to the author @*
of the revision at point.  It prompts for confirmation before sending. @*
This command works from any buffer where a revision ID is available @*
(history, watchlist, or contributions). @*

@node Full keybinding reference (2)
@subsection Full keybinding reference

@multitable {aaaaa} {aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa} {aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa}
@headitem Key
@tab Command
@tab Description
@item @samp{RET}
@tab @code{wikipedia-user-contributions-view-diff}
@tab Show diff
@item @samp{d}
@tab @code{wikipedia-user-contributions-view-diff}
@tab Show diff
@item @samp{v}
@tab @code{wikipedia-user-contributions-view-revision}
@tab View wikitext
@item @samp{o}
@tab @code{wikipedia-user-contributions-open-page}
@tab Open page for editing
@item @samp{h}
@tab @code{wikipedia-user-contributions-show-history}
@tab Show page history
@item @samp{b}
@tab @code{wikipedia-user-contributions-browse}
@tab Open in browser
@item @samp{B}
@tab @code{wikipedia-browse}
@tab Browse any page
@item @samp{f}
@tab @code{wikipedia-diff-follow-mode}
@tab Toggle diff follow mode
@item @samp{t}
@tab @code{wikipedia-user-contributions-thank}
@tab Thank for this edit
@item @samp{u}
@tab @code{wikipedia-user-at-point}
@tab Inspect user at point
@item @samp{s}
@tab @code{wikipedia-user-stats}
@tab User stats via XTools
@item @samp{w}
@tab @code{wikipedia-watchlist-watch}
@tab Watch this page
@item @samp{x}
@tab @code{wikipedia-watchlist-unwatch}
@tab Unwatch this page
@item @samp{g}
@tab @code{wikipedia-user-contributions-refresh}
@tab Refresh contributions
@item @samp{q}
@tab @code{quit-window}
@tab Close the window
@end multitable

@node XTools statistics
@section XTools statistics

The XTools commands fetch and display editing statistics from the @*
@uref{https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/XTools/API, XTools API}, a service that provides detailed analysis of editing @*
activity on MediaWiki projects.  These commands supplement the @*
information available through the MediaWiki API with data such as top @*
edited pages and detailed edit breakdowns. @*

@menu
* User statistics::
* Page statistics::
@end menu

@node User statistics
@subsection User statistics

@findex wikipedia-xtools-user-stats
The command @code{wikipedia-xtools-user-stats} displays comprehensive @*
statistics for a user.  The output includes: @*

@itemize
@item
Basic information: user ID, registration date, project. @*
@item
Admin status (highlighted if the user is a sysop or bureaucrat). @*
@item
Edit counts: live edits, deleted edits, total, and pages created. @*
@item
Activity period: first edit and most recent edit timestamps. @*
@item
User group memberships (local and global). @*
@item
Top 10 most-edited pages in the article namespace. @*
@end itemize

The command combines data from both the XTools API (edit counts) and the @*
MediaWiki API (registration, groups, contribution timestamps) to present @*
a unified view. @*

@node Page statistics
@subsection Page statistics

@findex wikipedia-xtools-page-stats
@findex wikipedia-xtools-top-editors
The command @code{wikipedia-xtools-page-stats} displays statistics for a @*
page, including revision count, number of editors, minor edit count, @*
average edit size, page size, creation date, and top editors. @*

The command @code{wikipedia-xtools-top-editors} displays a detailed list of @*
the top editors for a page, showing each editor's edit count, minor edit @*
count, and the date range of their activity. @*

@node Synchronization and local mirror
@section Synchronization and local mirror

The synchronization and mirror system stores Wikipedia pages and their @*
revision history in a local SQLite database, enabling offline browsing @*
and faster access to frequently visited pages. @*

@menu
* Synchronizing pages::
* Browsing the local mirror::
* Local revision history::
* Database management::
@end menu

@node Synchronizing pages
@subsection Synchronizing pages

@findex wikipedia-sync-page
@findex wikipedia-sync-watchlist
@findex wikipedia-sync-update
The command @code{wikipedia-sync-page} synchronizes a single page to the @*
local database.  It downloads revision metadata (up to @*
@code{wikipedia-sync-revision-limit} revisions) and, if @*
@code{wikipedia-sync-fetch-content} is non-nil, the full wikitext of the most @*
recent revision. @*

The command @code{wikipedia-sync-watchlist} performs a bulk synchronization of @*
all pages from your watchlist.  It first fetches the watchlist, marks @*
each page as watched in the database, and then synchronizes each page @*
individually with a brief delay between requests to avoid overloading @*
the server.  Pages that fail to synchronize are reported in a summary @*
message without aborting the remaining pages. @*

The command @code{wikipedia-sync-update} re-synchronizes all pages already @*
marked as watched in the local database.  Use this for routine updates @*
after the initial @code{wikipedia-sync-watchlist} import. @*

@node Browsing the local mirror
@subsection Browsing the local mirror

@findex wikipedia-mirror
@findex wikipedia-mirror-refresh
@findex wikipedia-mirror-open-page
@findex wikipedia-mirror-show-history
@findex wikipedia-mirror-sync-page
@findex wikipedia-mirror-sync-all
The command @code{wikipedia-mirror} opens a buffer listing all pages stored in @*
the local database, showing each page's title, revision count, last sync @*
time, and watched status. @*

From the mirror browser, you can open a page for online editing (@samp{RET}, @*
@samp{o}), view its local revision history (@samp{h}), synchronize a single page @*
(@samp{s}), or synchronize all watched pages (@samp{S}). @*

@multitable {aaaaa} {aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa} {aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa}
@headitem Key
@tab Command
@tab Description
@item @samp{RET}
@tab @code{wikipedia-mirror-open-page}
@tab Open page for online editing
@item @samp{o}
@tab @code{wikipedia-mirror-open-page}
@tab Open page for online editing
@item @samp{h}
@tab @code{wikipedia-mirror-show-history}
@tab Show local revision history
@item @samp{s}
@tab @code{wikipedia-mirror-sync-page}
@tab Sync this page
@item @samp{S}
@tab @code{wikipedia-mirror-sync-all}
@tab Sync all watched pages
@item @samp{g}
@tab @code{wikipedia-mirror-refresh}
@tab Refresh the list
@item @samp{q}
@tab @code{quit-window}
@tab Close the window
@end multitable

@node Local revision history
@subsection Local revision history

@findex wikipedia-mirror-history-view
@findex wikipedia-mirror-history-diff
@findex wikipedia-mirror-history-refresh
The local history buffer shows revisions stored in the database for a @*
given page.  The command @code{wikipedia-mirror-history-view} (@samp{RET}, @samp{v}) @*
displays the stored wikitext of the revision at point.  The command @*
@code{wikipedia-mirror-history-diff} (@samp{d}) shows the diff between the @*
revision and its parent, using locally stored content. @*

Both commands require that the revision content was downloaded during @*
synchronization.  If content is not available, an error is reported. @*

@multitable {aaaaa} {aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa} {aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa}
@headitem Key
@tab Command
@tab Description
@item @samp{RET}
@tab @code{wikipedia-mirror-history-view}
@tab View stored wikitext
@item @samp{v}
@tab @code{wikipedia-mirror-history-view}
@tab View stored wikitext
@item @samp{d}
@tab @code{wikipedia-mirror-history-diff}
@tab Diff to parent revision
@item @samp{g}
@tab @code{wikipedia-mirror-history-refresh}
@tab Refresh history
@item @samp{q}
@tab @code{quit-window}
@tab Close the window
@end multitable

@node Database management
@subsection Database management

@findex wikipedia-db-close
@findex wikipedia-db-stats
The command @code{wikipedia-db-close} closes the database connection.  The @*
connection is opened lazily on first use and remains open for the @*
duration of the Emacs session. @*

The command @code{wikipedia-db-stats} displays a summary of the database @*
contents: the number of pages, watched pages, revisions, and revisions @*
with stored content. @*

@node Diff follow mode
@section Diff follow mode

@findex wikipedia-diff-follow-mode
The minor mode @code{wikipedia-diff-follow-mode} automatically displays the @*
diff for the entry at point whenever you move to a different line in a @*
list buffer.  It works in the watchlist, history, and contributions @*
buffers and is toggled with @samp{f} in any of these modes. @*

When enabled, navigating to a new entry triggers an automatic diff @*
display in an adjacent window.  If both revisions are already in the @*
cache (populated by the watchlist's background prefetching), the diff @*
appears instantly.  Otherwise, the revisions are fetched asynchronously @*
and the diff is displayed when both arrive, with a ``Loading diff@dots{}'' @*
placeholder in the meantime. @*

Diff follow mode requires @code{wikipedia-diff-function} to be set to @*
@code{unified} (@ref{Diff display}).  Attempting @*
to enable it when @code{ediff} is selected produces a warning and the mode @*
remains disabled. @*

In watchlist mode, viewing a diff via follow mode also marks the entry @*
as read (@ref{Unread tracking}). @*

@node AI review
@section AI review

@findex wikipedia-ai-review-watchlist
@findex wikipedia-watchlist-sort-by-score
@findex wikipedia-watchlist-show-score-reason
The command @code{wikipedia-ai-review-watchlist} (@samp{R} in the watchlist) @*
scores each watchlist group using an LLM@.  For each group, it computes @*
a unified diff between the oldest base revision and the newest @*
revision, sends it to the model with the configured prompt @*
(@ref{Review prompt}), and stores the returned score (0.0--1.0) and @*
reason.  Scores appear in the watchlist's @samp{Score} column and are @*
persisted in the local SQLite database. @*

Processing is asynchronous and sequential: each group is scored one at @*
a time.  Progress is reported in the echo area.  Re-invoking @samp{R} @*
while a review is running cancels the previous run and starts a fresh @*
one. @*

The command @code{wikipedia-watchlist-sort-by-score} (@samp{S}) sorts @*
the watchlist by score, highest first.  Unscored entries are placed at @*
the bottom. @*

The command @code{wikipedia-watchlist-show-score-reason} (@samp{I}) @*
displays the AI's reasoning for the score of the entry at point in the @*
echo area. @*

High scores (>= 0.7) are highlighted with the @*
@code{wikipedia-watchlist-score-high} face, and low scores (<= 0.3) use @*
the @code{wikipedia-watchlist-score-low} face. @*

@node Transient menu
@section Transient menu

@findex wikipedia-transient
The command @code{wikipedia-transient} opens a transient menu providing quick @*
access to all @samp{wikipedia.el} commands.  The menu is organized into @*
groups: @*

@itemize
@item
@strong{Page}: open, publish, preview, browse, and login. @*
@item
@strong{Draft}: save, open, and delete drafts. @*
@item
@strong{Watchlist}: open the watchlist, watch/unwatch pages, browse, and mark @*
all read. @*
@item
@strong{History}: open page history. @*
@item
@strong{User}: user contributions, user page, user talk, browse user, and @*
thank. @*
@item
@strong{XTools}: user stats, page stats, and top editors. @*
@item
@strong{Sync & Mirror}: sync page, sync watchlist, sync update, and mirror @*
browser. @*
@item
@strong{AI Detection} (requires @samp{pangram.el}): detect AI-generated text and @*
clear overlays.  This group is only shown when @samp{pangram.el} is @*
installed. @*

@item
@strong{AI Editing} (requires @samp{gptel}): generate citations and review @*
watchlist changes with AI@.  This group is only shown when @samp{gptel} @*
is installed. @*
@end itemize

Bind @code{wikipedia-transient} to a convenient key for quick access to any @*
command in the package. @*

@node Indices
@chapter Indices

@menu
* Function index::
* Variable index::
@end menu

@node Function index
@section Function index

@printindex fn

@node Variable index
@section Variable index

@printindex vr

@bye
